.\" Manpage for nymead.
.\" Contact simon.stuerz@guh.io to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "March 2019" "1.10" "nymead man page"
.SH NAME
nymead \- An open source IoT (Internet of Things) server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nymead
[\fIOPTION\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The nymea daemon is a plugin based IoT (Internet of Things) server. The
server works like a translator for devices, things and services and
allows them to interact. With the powerful rule engine you are able to connect any device available
in the system and create individual scenes and behaviors for your environment.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Displays this help.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Displays version information.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-no\-daemon\fR
Run nymead in the foreground, not as daemon.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-print\-all\fR
Enables all debug categories. Single debug categories can be disabled again 
with -d parameter.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-log\fR
Specify a log file to write to, if this option is not specified, 
logs will be printed to the standard output.
.TP
\fB\-\-session\fR
If specified, all D-Bus interfaces will be bound to the session bus 
instead of the system bus.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR, \fB\<[No\]DebugCategory>\fR
Debug categories to enable. In order to disable a category which is enabled by 
default, you can add \"No\" to the category. Warnings from all 
categories will be printed unless they are explicitly muted with "NoWarnings".
.RS
.TP
\fBMain\ debug\ categories:\fR
.IP \fIAWS\fR\ (default\ disabled)
Print the debug messages from the AWS connection.
.IP \fIAWSTraffic\fR\ (default\ disabled)
Print the debug messages from the AWS connection traffic.
.IP \fIApplication\fR\ (default\ enabled)
Print the debug messages from the core application.
.IP \fIPlatformZeroConfi\fR\ (default\ disabled)
Print the debug messages from the ZeroConf resource.
.IP \fIBluetooth\fR\ (default\ disabled)
Print the debug messages from the bluetooth resource.
.IP \fICloud\fR\ (default\ enabled)
Print the debug messages from the Cloud connections in nymea.
.IP \fICoap\fR\ (default\ disabled)
Print the debug messages from the COaP resource.
.IP \fIConnection\fR\ (default\ enabled)
Print the debug messages from the TCP connections in nymea.
.IP \fIDeviceManager\fR\ (default\ enabled)
Print the debug messages from the device manager.
.IP \fIHardware\fR\ (default\ disabled)
Print the debug messages from hardware resources in nymea.
.IP \fIJsonRpc\fR\ (default\ disabled)
Print the debug messages from JSON-RPC API.
.IP \fIJsonRpcTraffic\fR\ (default\ disabled)
Print the debug messages from JSON-RPC API traffic.
.IP \fILogEngine\fR\ (default\ disabled)
Print the debug messages from logging engine.
.IP \fINetworkManager\fR\ (default\ disabled)
Print the debug messages from network manager.
.IP \fIOAuth2\fR\ (default\ disabled)
Print the debug messages of the OAuth2 resource.
.IP \fIRest\fR\ (default\ disabled)
Print the debug messages from REST API.
.IP \fIRuleEngine\fR\ (default\ enabled)
Print the debug messages from the rule engine.
.IP \fIRuleEngineDebug\fR\ (default\ disabled)
Print the debug messages from the rule engine with more details.
.IP \fITcpServer\fR\ (default\ disabled)
Print the debug messages from the TCP server.
.IP \fITcpServerTraffic\fR\ (default\ disabled)
Print the debug messages from the TCP server traffic.
.IP \fITimeManager\fR\ (default\ disabled)
Print the debug messages from the time manager.
.IP \fIUPnP\fR\ (default\ disabled)
Print the debug messages from the UPnP resource.
.IP \fIUserManager\fR\ (default\ enabled)
Print the debug messages from the user manager.
.IP \fIWarning\fR\ (default\ enabled)
Print warnings.
.IP \fIWebServer\fR\ (default\ disabled)
Print the debug messages from the web server.
.IP \fIWebSocketServer\fR\ (default\ disabled)
Print the debug messages from the websocket server.
.IP \fIWebSocketServerTraffic\fR\ (default\ disabled)
Print the debug messages from the websocket server traffic.
.TP
\fBDebug\ categories\ for\ plugins:\fR
Since nymea loads the plugins dynamically, the list of supported
plugin debug categories depends on your plugin installation. Please use
the \fB-h\fR command to see which categories are available for your system.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
To start nymead in the foreground and read the debug messages from the Hardware:
.IP
$ nymead -n -d Hardware
.TP
To start nymead in the foreground, disable debug messages from the DeviceManager and enable debug messages for JsonRpc and LogEngine:
.IP
$ nymead -n -d NoDeviceManager -d JsonRpc -d LogEngine
.TP
To start nymead in the foreground, enable all debug messages except WebSocketServerTraffic and TcpServerTraffic:
.IP
$ nymead -n -p -d NoWebSocketServerTraffic -d NoTcpServerTraffic
.SH FILES
The server config file: \fI/etc/nymea/nymead.conf\fR
.br
The devices config file: \fI/etc/nymea/devices.conf\fR
.br
The rules config file: \fI/etc/nymea/rules.conf\fR
.br
The plugins config file: \fI/etc/nymea/plugins.conf\fR
.br
The log file: \fI/var/log/nymead.log\fR
.br
The logging database: \fI/var/log/nymead.sqlite\fR
.br
The systemd unit file: \fI/lib/systemd/system/nymead.service\fR
.br
The plugins directory: \fI/usr/lib/<arch-triplet>/nymea/plugins/\fR
.SH SEE ALSO
Full developer documentation at: <https://doc.nymea.io>
.br
Wiki: <https://wiki.nymea.io>
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Issue tracker on github: <https://github.com/nymea/nymea/issues>
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Simon Stürz and Michael Zanetti
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2014-2020 nymea GmbH.
.br

License GPLv2: GNU GPL version 2 <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
.br
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
