.\" Manpage for nymea-generateplugininfo.
.\" Contact simon.stuerz@guh.io to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "March 2017" "1.0.1" "nymea-generateplugininfo man page"
.SH NAME
nymea-generateplugininfo \- A precompiler for building nymea plugins.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nymea-generateplugininfo
[\fIOPTION\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The nymea-generateplugininfo is a precompiler for building plugins. This
precompiler will create a plugininfo.h containing the uuid definitions from
the plugin json file and creates the translations for the plugin.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Displays this help.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Displays version information.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-filetype\fR, \fB{e, i}\fR
The file type to generate: e = extern infofile, i = infofile.
.TP
\fB\-j\fR, \fB\-\-jsonfile\fR, \fB\<jsonfile>\fR
The JSON input file name with the plugin description.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-builddir\fR, \fB\<build directory>\fR
The path to the build directory of the plugin where the plugininfo.h 
file can be found..
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR, \fB\<outputfile>\fR
The plugininfo.h outputFile with the uuid declarations.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-translations\fR, \fB[<*.ts>]\fR
The translation files for the plugin.

.SH SEE ALSO
Full developer documentation at: <https://doc.nymea.io>
.br
Wiki on github: <https://github.com/guh/nymea/wiki>
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Issue tracker on github: <https://github.com/guh/nymea/issues>
.br
How to report bugs: <https://github.com/guh/nymea/wiki/Reporting-bugs>
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Simon Stürz
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2014-2017 guh GmbH.
.br

License GPLv2: GNU GPL version 2 <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
.br
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
