.\" Manpage for nymead.
.\" Contact chargebyte austria GmbH <contact@nymea.io> to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "April 2026" "1.10" "nymead man page"
.SH NAME
nymead \- An open source IoT (Internet of Things) server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nymead
[\fIOPTION\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The nymea daemon is a plugin based IoT (Internet of Things) server. The
server works like a translator for devices, things and services and
allows them to interact. With the powerful rule engine you are able to connect any device available
in the system and create individual scenes and behaviors for your environment.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Displays this help.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Displays version information.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-no\-daemon\fR
Run nymead in the foreground, not as daemon.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Disables logging all debug, info and warning categories.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-print\-all\fR
Enables all info and debug categories except *Traffic and *Debug categories.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-log\fR, \fB<logfile>\fR
Specify a log file to write to, if this option is not specified, 
logs will be printed to the standard output.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-colors\fR
Log output is colorized by default. Use this option to disable colors.
.TP
\fB\-\-session\fR
If specified, all D-Bus interfaces will be bound to the session bus 
instead of the system bus.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\-category\fR, \fB<[No]DebugCategory[Warnings|Info]>\fR
Debug categories to enable. Prefix with "No" to disable. Suffix with "Info"
or "Warnings" to address info and warning messages. Enabling a debug category
will implicitly enable the according info category.
.RS
.TP
\fBBuilt\-in\ debug\ categories:\fR
.IP
\fIThing\fR,
\fIThingManager\fR,
\fISystem\fR,
\fIPlatform\fR,
\fIPlatformUpdate\fR,
\fIPlatformZeroConf\fR,
\fIExperiences\fR,
\fITimeManager\fR,
\fIHardware\fR,
\fIServerManager\fR,
\fITcpServer\fR,
\fITcpServerTraffic\fR,
\fIWebServer\fR,
\fIWebServerTraffic\fR,
\fIDebugServer\fR,
\fIWebSocketServer\fR,
\fIWebSocketServerTraffic\fR,
\fIJsonRpc\fR,
\fIJsonRpcTraffic\fR,
\fIRest\fR,
\fIOAuth2\fR,
\fIUPnP\fR,
\fIBluetooth\fR,
\fICloud\fR,
\fICloudTraffic\fR,
\fINetworkManager\fR,
\fIUserManager\fR,
\fIBluetoothServer\fR,
\fIBluetoothServerTraffic\fR,
\fIMqtt\fR,
\fITranslations\fR,
\fICoap\fR,
\fII2C\fR,
\fIJsIntegrations\fR,
\fITransfer\fR,
\fITransferTraffic\fR,
\fITransportRouter\fR
.RE
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-interface\fR, \fB<interfaceString>\fR
Additional interfaces to listen on. In nymea URI format (for example
\fInymeas://127.0.0.2:7777\fR). Such interfaces will not require any
authentication as they are intended to be used for automated testing only.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-no\-logengine\fR
Disable the influx DB log engine.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-configuration\fR, \fB<path>\fR
Use the given path for storing configurations. This option overrides the
\fBNYMEA_CONFIG_PATH\fR environment variable.
.TP
\fBDebug\ categories\ for\ plugins:\fR
Since nymea loads the plugins dynamically, the list of supported
plugin debug categories depends on your plugin installation. Please use
the \fB-h\fR command to see which categories are available for your system.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
To start nymead in the foreground and read the debug messages from the Hardware:
.IP
$ nymead -n -d Hardware
.TP
To start nymead in the foreground, disable debug messages from the ThingManager and enable debug messages for JsonRpc and Rest:
.IP
$ nymead -n -d NoThingManager -d JsonRpc -d Rest
.TP
To start nymead in the foreground, enable all debug messages except WebSocketServerTraffic and TcpServerTraffic:
.IP
$ nymead -n -p -d NoWebSocketServerTraffic -d NoTcpServerTraffic
.SH FILES
The server config file: \fI/var/lib/nymea/nymead.conf\fR
.br
The things config file: \fI/var/lib/nymea/things.conf\fR
.br
The rules config file: \fI/var/lib/nymea/rules.conf\fR
.br
The plugins config file: \fI/var/lib/nymea/plugins.conf\fR
.br
The packaged default config directory: \fI/usr/share/nymea/defaults\fR
.br
The log file if enabled: \fI/var/log/nymead.log\fR
.br
The systemd unit file: \fI/lib/systemd/system/nymead.service\fR
.br
The plugins directory: \fI/usr/lib/<arch-triplet>/nymea/plugins/\fR
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fBNYMEA_CONFIG_PATH\fR
Overrides the runtime configuration directory. This is the directory where
nymead reads and writes its live configuration files. The
\fB\-\-configuration\fR option overrides this variable.
.TP
\fBNYMEA_DEFAULT_CONFIG_PATH\fR
Overrides the read-only default configuration directory used to seed missing
configuration files.
.TP
\fBNYMEA_TRANSLATIONS_PATH\fR
Overrides the directory used to load translation files.
.TP
\fBNYMEA_INSECURE_INTERFACES_DISABLED\fR
If set to a value other than \fB0\fR, nymead disables insecure core
interfaces, including unauthenticated or unencrypted interfaces.
.TP
\fBNYMEA_PLUGINS_PATH\fR
Colon-separated list of integration plugin directories. If set, it replaces
the built-in default integration plugin search path.
.TP
\fBNYMEA_PLUGINS_EXTRA_PATH\fR
Colon-separated list of additional integration plugin directories searched
before the default integration plugin path.
.TP
\fBNYMEA_PLATFORM_PLUGINS_PATH\fR
Colon-separated list of platform plugin directories. If set, it replaces the
built-in default platform plugin search path.
.TP
\fBNYMEA_PLATFORM_PLUGINS_EXTRA_PATH\fR
Colon-separated list of additional platform plugin directories searched before
the default platform plugin path.
.TP
\fBNYMEA_APIKEYS_PLUGINS_PATH\fR
Colon-separated list of API keys provider plugin directories. If set, it
replaces the built-in default API keys provider search path.
.TP
\fBNYMEA_APIKEYS_PLUGINS_EXTRA_PATH\fR
Colon-separated list of additional API keys provider plugin directories
searched before the default API keys provider path.
.TP
\fBNYMEA_EXPERIENCE_PLUGINS_PATH\fR
Colon-separated list of experience plugin directories. If set, it replaces the
built-in default experience plugin search path.
.TP
\fBNYMEA_EXPERIENCE_PLUGINS_EXTRA_PATH\fR
Colon-separated list of additional experience plugin directories searched
before the default experience plugin path.
.TP
\fBNYMEA_ZWAVE_PLUGIN_PATH\fR
Colon-separated list of Z-Wave backend plugin directories searched before the
built-in default Z-Wave backend locations.
.TP
\fBDEVICE_SERIAL\fR
Provides a fallback device serial number if the active platform plugin does
not implement one.
.SH SEE ALSO
Full developer documentation at: <https://nymea.io>
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Issue tracker on github: <https://github.com/nymea/nymea/issues>
.SH AUTHOR
Mainly written by Simon Stürz and Michael Zanetti
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2013-2024 nymea GmbH.
.br
Copyright \(co 2024-2026 chargebyte austria GmbH.
.br

License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
.br
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
