.\" Manpage for nymea-plugininfo.
.\" Contact chargebyte austria GmbH <contact@nymea.io> to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "Jun 2019" "1.0.0" "nymea-plugininfocompiler man page"
.SH NAME
nymea-plugininfocompiler \- A precompiler for building nymea plugins.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nymea-plugininfocompiler
[\fIOPTION\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The nymea-plugininfocompiler is a precompiler for building plugins. This
precompiler will create a plugininfo.h containing the uuid definitions from
the plugin json file and creates the translations for the plugin.
.SH USAGE
nymea-plugininfocompiler [options] inputfile
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Displays this help.
.TP
The JSON input file name with the plugin description.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR, \fB\<outputfile>\fR
The plugininfo.h outputFile with the uuid definitions.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-extern\fR, \fB[<extern-outputfile>]\fR
The extern-plugininfo.h output file with the uuid forward declarations.

.SH SEE ALSO
Full developer documentation at: <https://doc.nymea.io>
.br
Wiki on github: <https://github.com/guh/nymea/wiki>
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Issue tracker on github: <https://github.com/guh/nymea/issues>
.br
How to report bugs: <https://github.com/guh/nymea/wiki/Reporting-bugs>
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Simon Stürz
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2013-2024 nymea GmbH.
.br
Copyright \(co 2024-2025 chargebyte austria GmbH.
.br

License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
.br
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
